**Computational package for sleep history estimation and initial condition setting**

We developed a user-friendly computational package, ICbySleepHist (Initial Condition Setting by Sleep History Estimation), to provide a tool for estimating sleep history and incorporating it as an initial condition for ODE-based circadian phase estimation in MATLAB 2023b (available on GitHub\*). This package estimates sleep history based on input sleep information and reflects the sleep history as an initial condition for ODE-based circadian phase estimation. The example code is written in ‘main\_example.mat’, and its detailed implementation steps are as follows.

1\. Download the package from the code repository.

2\. Save the sleep pattern information as a CSV file with the name ‘sleep\_pattern\_info.csv’ in the folder having the main function ‘main\_exp.mat’. Each entry of the first and second columns is the sleep onset and offset time, respectively.

3\. Open ‘main\_example.m’ file, which contains code to estimate the initial condition based on four methods (regular sleep (line 3), mean midsleep (line 15), period based (line 18), and work history based (line 21)).

3-1. To estimate the IC with the regular sleep method, use the function ‘IC\_regular\_sleep\_method’ as line 3 in the ‘main\_example.m’ file. This function has five inputs: ‘sleep\_start\_time’, ‘sleep\_end\_time’, ‘light\_intensity’, ‘model\_name’, and ‘IC\_of\_IC’. Assign the sleep onset and offset time of the constant sleep to the ‘sleep\_start\_time’ and ‘sleep\_end\_time’, respectively. The ‘light\_intensity’ is the positive numerical value representing the light intensity during wakefulness. The ‘model\_name’ is either ‘simpler’, ‘higher’, or ‘nonphotic’, determining the type of mathematical model used for the simulation. Finally, assign the initial condition for the mathematical model simulation using the estimated sleep history to ‘IC\_of\_IC’. For example, if the constant sleep is 23:30 – 07:30 and light intensity during wakefulness is 250 lux for the mathematical model simulation with the simpler model starting from initial condition \[1 0.5 \-0.3\], the function should be as follows: IC\_regular\_sleep\_method("23:30", "7:30", 250, "simpler", \[1 0.5 \-0.3\]).

3-2. To estimate the IC with the mean midsleep method, use the function ‘IC\_mean\_midsleep\_method’ as line 13 in the ‘main\_exp.m’ file. This function has nine inputs: ‘start\_day’, ‘end\_day’, ‘onset\_info’, ‘offset\_info’, ‘work\_series’, ‘work\_type\_for\_midsleep’, ‘light\_intensity’, ‘model\_name’, and ‘IC\_of\_IC’. The meanings of ‘light\_intensity’, ‘model\_name’, and ‘IC\_of\_IC’ are the same as in the ‘IC\_regular\_sleep\_method’. The ‘start\_day’ and ‘end\_day’ are the starting and ending dates of the sleep data, respectively. The ‘onset\_info’ and ‘offset\_info’ are the sleep onset and offset information in the sleep data, respectively. The ‘work\_series’ is the vector of the daily work schedule where the first entry is the work schedule for ‘start\_day’ and the last entry is the work schedule for ‘end\_day’. The ‘work\_type\_for\_midsleep’ is the vector of the work schedule so that the days with these schedules are reflected in the mean midsleep calculation.

3-3. To estimate the IC with the period-based sleep method, use the function ‘IC\_period\_based\_sleep\_method’ as line 13 in the ‘main\_exp.m’ file. This function has nine inputs: ‘start\_day’, ‘end\_day’, ‘onset\_info’, ‘offset\_info’, ‘work\_series’, ‘maximal\_lasting\_consecutive\_days’, ‘light\_intensity’, ‘model\_name’, and ‘IC\_of\_IC’. The meanings of ‘start\_day’, ‘end\_day’, ‘onset\_info’, ‘offset\_info’, ‘work\_series’ ‘light\_intensity’, ‘model\_name’, and ‘IC\_of\_IC’ are the same as in the ‘IC\_mean\_midsleep\_method’. The ‘maximal\_lasting\_consecutive\_days’ is the maximal days of consecutive shifts.

3-4. To estimate the IC with the work history-based method, use the function ‘IC\_work\_history\_based\_sleep\_method’. This function has nine inputs: ‘start\_day’, ‘end\_day’, ‘onset\_info’, ‘offset\_info’, ‘work\_series’, ‘work\_history’, ‘light\_intensity’, ‘model\_name’, and ‘IC\_of\_IC’. The ‘work\_history’ is the historical work schedule. Other variables are the same as those of the ‘IC\_period-based\_sleep\_method’.

